
# Simpatico 

Simpatico - Simulation Package for Polymeric and Molecular Liquids

Copyright 2010 - 2017 The Regents of the University of Minnesota
Distributed under the terms of the GNU General Public License.

## Overview

Simpatico is a C++ package for Molecular Dynamics (MD), Monte Carlo 
(MC), and hybrid MC simulations of classical mechanical models of 
polymeric and molecular liquids. It has thus far been used primarily 
for simulating course-grained models of polymer liquids. 

The simpatico package contains:

- A program for parallel MD simulations, named ddSim.

- Programs for Monte Carlo (MC) and molecular dynamics (MD) 
  simulations on a single processor, named mcSim and mdSim.

The ddSim parallel MD program uses a spatial domain decomposition 
strategy to allow efficientl simulation of very large systems. 
The mcSim and mdSim simulation are convenient for simulations on
a personal computer. The single-processor simulations also provide 
convenient ways to submit embarassingly parallel simulations of 
many similar systems with one system per CPU core, which can be
used to improve statistics in MC sampling or to explore a parameter
space. 

All three simulation programs (ddSim, mdSim and mcSim) provide 
very flexible, extensible facilities for on-the-fly output and 
analysis of selected physical variables during a simulation. 
The single-processor mcSim and mdSim can also be used for
postprocess analysis of trajectories, by applying the same 
analysis algorithms to a sequence of configuration snapshots 
read from file.
   
Simpatico is distributed only in source code form, and so must 
be compiled from source.

## Getting the Source Code

The simpatico source code is maintained in the github repository
                                                                             
   <https://github.com/dmorse/simpatico>.

It may be obtained by using a git version control system client
to clone the repository. To do so, enter the command:

   git clone --recursive https://github.com/dmorse/simpatico.git

Note the use of the --recursive option to the git clone command: 
This is necessary to clone some git submodules that are maintained 
in separate repositories. 

## Documentation

A recent copy of the web manual for simpatico is available online, 
at

   <http://dmorse.github.com/simpatico/index.html>.

This manual provides both user and developer documentation in an
integrated form.

The web manual for simpatico is prepared using the Doxygen utility 
(www.doxygen.org), and can be regenerated by users. Running doxygen 
creates html web pages that are deposited in the directory named 
doc/html/ within a users copy of the simpatico working tree. These 
web pages are created from both comments extracted from the C++ 
source code and from a set of text files with the file extension
*.dox. Text files containing text for the introductory sections 
of the web manual are located in the directory doc/manual/, and
are readable in any text editor. 

After getting a copy of the source code (either by download or by 
cloning the git repository), you can use dOxygen to generate a local 
copy of the html documentation within the simpatico/doc/html directory 
of the source code tree.  This requires that dOxygen be installed on 
your computer and that the executable be in a directory in your PATH. 
The basic instructions (after dOxygen is installed) are:

  - cd to the simpatico/doc directory

  - Enter "make html"

This should create many html files in the simpatico/doc/html 
directory. To begin reading the documentation, point a browser at 
the file simpatico/doc/html/index.html, which is the main page of
the manual.

## Compiling

The simpatico source code is ansi standard C++, and must be 
compiled from source. The single-processor versions of the
mcSim and mdSim MC and MD simulation program do not depend
on any external libraries. Multi-processor programs (ddSim 
and multi-processor versions of mcSim and mdSim) require an 
MPI library. The build system requires the gnu version of 
the unix make utility and a python interpreter.

Complete instructions for compiling various versions of simpatico 
are given in the text file simpatico/doc/manual/user/compile.dox, 
or in the corresponding html web page in the doc/html directory.
Short instructions for compiling the default single-processor 
versions of mcSim and mdSim (for the impatient) are:

- Add the simpatico/bin directory to your linux command search
  PATH environment variable, and add the simpatico/scripts/python 
  directory to your PYTHONPATH environment variable.

- cd to the simpatico/ root directory

- Enter "./setup" from the root directory to run a setup script

- Enter "make mcMd" from the same directory

The resulting executables, named "mcSim" and "mdSim", will 
be installed in the simpatico bin/ directory. Please see the 
text file and html documentation mentioned above for further 
instructions for compiling multi-processor programs.

Instructions for enabling or disabling a variety of optional 
compile-time features are also given in the html documentation. 
